---
title: Getting Started Guide for Kubernetes
short: Getting started on Kubernetes
description: Install and run a SPIRE Server and Agent locally on a Kubernetes cluster
weight: 3
toc: true
---

# About this Tutorial

This tutorial walks you through getting a SPIRE Server and SPIRE Agent running in a Kubernetes cluster, and configuring a workload container to access SPIRE. 

{{< warning >}}
This tutorial is not designed for a production Kubernetes environment. 
A production environment requires adjustments to certain steps; the section 
[Changes for a Production Environment](#changes-for-a-production-environment) walks you through the necessary changes.
{{< /warning >}}

## Before You Begin

Before you begin, read through this section for information about the environment and deployment it sets up. Also, if you’re not familiar with basic SPIFFE and SPIRE concepts, be sure to review the [SPIFFE](/spiffe) and [SPIRE](/spire) overviews.

## Tested Kubernetes Versions

This tutorial has been tested on these Kubernetes versions: 1.13.1, 1.12.4, and 1.10.12.

## Assumptions

The sample **.yaml** files for this walkthrough assume you are running Kubernetes in a [minikube](https://kubernetes.io/docs/setup/minikube/) cluster. If you’re not running a minikube cluster, you will need to adjust certain configuration settings; these adjustments are called out in the relevant step in the tutorial.

## Deployment and Configuration Details

{{< warning >}}
The server deployment uses a **nodeSelector** to ensure that it runs on a "master" node. When running in an environment without an accessible "master,” you must select a node for the SPIRE Server and provision it, and change the **nodeSelector** entry in the **server-deployment.yaml** file accordingly. 
{{< /warning >}}

* The server deployment runs on the master Kubernetes node
* The agent daemonset runs on each Kubernetes worker node

* All SPIRE components are created in a Kubernetes namespace called **spire**.

* The server runs in a service account named **spire-server** 
* The agent runs in a service account named **spire-agent**

* The server uses a **hostPath** bind mount for persisting its keys and SQLite database.
.
* The agent uses a **hostPath** bind mount for sharing the agent API's UNIX domain socket with application containers.

* This tutorial does all configuring via Kubernetes configmaps. The container image for SPIRE contains only binaries.

# Steps

This section walks you step-by-step through getting a server and agent(s) running in your Kubernetes cluster and configuring a workload container to access SPIRE. 

{{< warning >}}
You must run all tutorial commands from the directory containing the **.yaml** files used for configuration. See [Obtain the Required Files](#section-1) for details.
{{< /warning >}}

## Section 1: Obtain the Required Files {#section-1}

This tutorial requires a number of **.yaml** files *and* you must run all tutorial commands in the directory in which those files 
reside. 

To obtain this directory of files clone **https://github.com/spiffe/spire-tutorials** and obtain 
the **.yaml** files from the **spire-tutorials/k8s** subdirectory.

## Section 2: Configure Kubernetes Namespace for SPIRE Components {#section-2}

Follow these steps to configure the **spire** namespace in which this tutorial deploys the SPIRE Server and SPIRE Agent.

1. Create the namespace:

        $ kubectl apply -f spire-namespace.yaml

2. Run the following command and verify that *spire* is listed in the output:

        $ kubectl get namespaces

## Section 3: Configure SPIRE Server {#section-3}

To configure the SPIRE server, you:

1. Create server service account
2. Create server secrets
3. Create server configmap
4. Create server deployment

### Create Server Service Account

1. Configure a service account named **spire-server**, by applying the **server-account.yaml** configuration file:

        $ kubectl apply -f server-account.yaml

2. To confirm successful creation, verify that “spire-server” appears in the output of the following command: 

        $ kubectl get sa -n spire

### Create Server Secrets

This example of creating secrets uses a bootstrap cert and key, as configured in the **server-secrets.yaml** configuration file. 
The value for `bootstrap.key` is a base64 encoding of dummy_upstream_ca.key. For reference, this value was generated by running the following base64 command:

        $ base64 -w0 spire/conf/server/dummy_upstream_ca.key

1. Create a set of secrets named **spire-server** in the **spire** namespace by issuing the following command:

        $ kubectl apply -f server-secrets.yaml

2. To confirm this command succeeded, look for the string “spire-server Opaque” in the output of the following command:

        $ kubectl get secrets -n spire

### Create Server Configmap

The server is configured in the Kubernetes configmap specified in server-configmap.yaml, which specifies a number of important directories, notably **/run/spire/data**, **/run/spire/config**, **/run/spire/secrets**, and **/run/k8s-certs**. These volumes are bound in when the server container is deployed.

The configmap also contains the bootstrap certificate **dummy_upstream_ca.crt**. As explained in the section [Changes for a Production Environment](#changes-for-a-production-environment), this is not appropriate for a production environment.

To create the server configmap, issue the following command:

        $ kubectl apply -f server-configmap.yaml

### Create Server Deployment

Before you deploy the server: If you are not running Kubernetes in a minikube cluster, you must introspect the running pod for kube-apiserver to determine which certificate Kubernetes uses to validate service accounts. This will either be the value of **--service-account-key-file** OR -- if that is not provided to **kube-apiserver** -- the value of **--tls-private-key-file**. Depending on which applies to you, set the **k8s-sa-cert** value to the certificate in use. 

Deploy the server by applying the configuration **server-deployment.yaml** file:

        $ kubectl apply -f server-deployment.yaml

This creates a deployment called **spire-server** in the **spire** namespace and starts up a **spire-server** pod, as demonstrated in the output of the following two commands:

        $ kubectl get deployments --namespace spire

        NAME           READY   UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   AGE
        spire-server   1/1     1            1           86m


        $ kubectl get pods --namespace spire

        NAME                           READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
        spire-server-b95945658-4wbkd   1/1     Running   0          86m


When you deploy the server it automatically configures a livenessProbe on the SPIRE server's GRPC port, which ensures availability of the container.

When the server deploys, it binds in the volumes summarized in the following table:

| Volume | Description | Mount Location |
| :------ |:---------- | :------------- |
| **spire-config** | A reference to the **spire-server** configmap created in the previous step | **/run/spire/config** |
| **spire-secrets** | A  reference to the **spire-server** secrets created in the step [Create Server Secrets](#create-server-secrets) | **/run/spire/secrets** | 
| **spire-data** | The hostPath for the server's SQLite database and keys file | **/run/spire/data** |
| **k8s-sa-cert** | The public key used to validate service accounts. As noted under [Create Server Deployment](#create-server-deployment) you must take special steps to correctly set this value if you're *not* running Kubernetes in a minikube cluster. | **/run/k8s-certs/sa.pub** |

### Create Server Service

1. Create the server service by applying the **server-service.yaml** configuration file

        $ kubectl apply -f server-service.yaml

2. Verify that the **spire** namespace now has a **spire-server** service in the **spire** namespace:

        $ kubectl get services --namespace spire

        NAME           TYPE       CLUSTER-IP      EXTERNAL-IP   PORT(S)          AGE
        spire-server   NodePort   10.107.205.29   <none>        8081:30337/TCP   88m

## Section 4: Configure SPIRE Agent {#section-4}

To configure the agent, you:

1. Create the agent service account
2. Create the agent configmap
3. Create the agent daemonset

### Create Agent Service Account

Apply the **agent-account.yaml** configuration file to create a service account named **spire-agent** in the **spire** namespace:

        $ kubectl apply -f agent-account.yaml

The **agent-account.yaml** file specifies a number of important directories, notably **/run/spire/data** and **/run/spire/sockets**. These directories are bound in when the agent container is deployed.

### Create Agent Configmap

Apply the **agent-configmap.yaml** configuration file to create the agent configmap.

        $ kubectl apply -f agent-configmap.yaml

### Create Agent Daemonset

Agents are deployed as a daemonset and one runs on each Kubernetes worker instance. 

Deploy the SPIRE agent by applying the **agent-daemonset.yaml** configuration. 

        $ kubectl apply -f agent-daemonset.yaml

This creates a daemonset called **spire-agent** in the **spire** namespace and starts up a **spire-agent** pod along side **spire-server**, as demonstrated in the output of the following two commands:

        $ kubectl get daemonset --namespace spire

        master
        NAME          DESIRED   CURRENT   READY   UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   NODE SELECTOR   AGE
        spire-agent   1         1         1       1            1           <none>          6m45s`

        $ kubectl get pods --namespace spire

        NAME                           READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
        spire-agent-88cpl              1/1     Running   0          6m45s
        spire-server-b95945658-4wbkd   1/1     Running   0          103m`

When the agent deploys, it binds the volumes summarized in the following table:

| Volume | Description | Mount Location |
| :------ |:---------- | :------------- |
| **spire-config** | The spire-agent configmap created in the  [Create Agent Configmap](#create-agent-configmap) step | **/run/spire/config** |
| **spire-sockets** | The hostPath, which will be shared with all other pods running on the same worker host. It contains a UNIX domain socket that workloads use to communicate with the agent API. | **/run/spire/sockets** |

To verify that the agent attested to the server, [examine the server logs](examine-server-logs); you should expect output similar to the following:

        time="2019-01-07T23:49:13Z" level=debug msg="Signing CSR for Agent SVID spiffe:
         //example.org/spire/agent/k8s_sat/minikube/139f5941-b83b-43f9-b35c-cafbe720d3ff
         " subsystem_name=node_api 
        time="2019-01-07T23:49:13Z" level=debug msg="Signed x509 SVID \"spiffe://exampl
         e.org/spire/agent/k8s_sat/minikube/139f5941-b83b-43f9-b35c-cafbe720d3ff\" (expi
         res 2019-01-07T23:59:39Z)" subsystem_name=ca_manager 
        time="2019-01-07T23:49:13Z" level=debug msg="could not find node resolver type 
         %qk8s_sat" subsystem_name=node_api 
        time="2019-01-07T23:49:13Z" level=info msg="Node attestation request from 192.1
         68.122.147:36718 completed using strategy k8s_sat" subsystem_name=node_api

## Section 5: Configure a Workload Container to Access SPIRE {#section-5}

In this step, you configure a workload container to access SPIRE. Specifically, you are configuring the workload container to access the Workload API UNIX domain socket. 

The **client-deployment.yaml** file configures a no-op container using the **spire-k8s** docker image used for the server and agent. Examine the `volumeMounts` and `volumes configuration` stanzas to see how the UNIX domain `socketagent.sock` is bound in.

You can test that the agent socket is accessible from an application container by issuing the following sequence of commands:

1. Apply the deployment file:

        $ kubectl apply -f client-deployment.yaml

2. Obtain the pod hash for the workload container pod:

        $ kubectl get pods

        NAME                      READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
        client-6f9659bd44-m98vv   1/1     Running   0          18s`

3. Obtain a shell connection to the running pod:

        $ kubectl exec -it client-6f9659bd44-m98vv /bin/bash
 
4. Verify the container can access the socket: 

        $root@minikube:/#/opt/spire/bin/spire-agent api fetch -socketPath /run/spire/sockets/agent.sock

If the agent is not running, you’ll see an error message such as “no such file or directory" or “connection refused”.

If the agent is running, you’ll see different output, such as “no identity issued” or a list of SVIDs.

## Section 6: Tear Down All Components {#section-6}

1. Run the following commands to delete all deployments and configurations for the agent, server, and namespace:

        $ kubectl delete daemonset spire-agent --namespace spire
        $ kubectl delete configmap spire-agent --namespace spire
        $ kubectl delete serviceaccount spire-agent --namespace spire
        $ kubectl delete deployment spire-server --namespace spire
        $ kubectl delete service spire-server --namespace spire
        $ kubectl delete configmap spire-server --namespace spire
        $ kubectl delete secrets spire-server --namespace spire
        $ kubectl delete serviceaccount spire-server --namespace spire
        $ kubectl delete namespace spire

2. Delete the workload container:

        $ kubectl delete deployment client

# Examining Server and Agent Logs

You examine server and agent logs with the `kubectl logs` command.

## Examine Server Logs

To examine the server logs, obtain the name of the random hash pod name displayed in the [Create Server Deployment](#create-server-deployment) step, and then pass it into the `kubectl` logs command, as demonstrated here:

        $ kubectl logs -f spire-server-b95945658-4wbkd --namespace spire

Your output should look something like the following:

        time="2019-01-07T20:41:39Z" level=debug msg="Setting umask to 077"
        time="2019-01-07T20:41:39Z" level=info msg="data directory: \"/run/spire/data\"
         "
        time="2019-01-07T20:41:39Z" level=info msg="Starting plugin catalog" subsystem_
         name=catalog
        time="2019-01-07T20:41:39Z" level=debug msg="DataStore(sql): configuring plugin
         " subsystem_name=catalog
        time="2019-01-07T20:41:39Z" level=debug msg="NodeAttestor(k8s_sat): configuring
          plugin" subsystem_name=catalog
        time="2019-01-07T20:41:39Z" level=debug msg="NodeResolver(noop): configuring 
         plugin" subsystem_name=catalog
        time="2019-01-07T20:41:39Z" level=debug msg="KeyManager(disk): configuring 
         plugin" subsystem_name=catalog
        time="2019-01-07T20:41:39Z" level=debug msg="UpstreamCA(disk): configuring 
         plugin" subsystem_name=catalog
        time="2019-01-07T20:41:39Z" level=info msg="plugins started"
        time="2019-01-07T20:41:39Z" level=debug msg="Loaded keypair set \"A\"" 
         subsystem_name=ca_manager
        time="2019-01-07T20:41:39Z" level=debug msg="Loaded keypair set \"B\"" 
         subsystem_name=ca_manager
        time="2019-01-07T20:41:39Z" level=debug msg="Loaded keypair sets" 
         subsystem_name=ca_manager
        time="2019-01-07T20:41:39Z" level=debug msg="Activating keypair set \"B\"" 
         subsystem_name=ca_manager`

## Examine Agent Logs

To examine the agent logs, obtain the name of the random hash pod name displayed in the  Create Agent Daemonset step, and then pass it into the `kubectl` logs command, as demonstrated here:

        $ kubectl logs -f spire-agent-88cpl --namespace spire

Your output should look something like the following:

        time="2019-01-07T22:20:59Z" level=info msg="Starting plugin catalog" subsystem_
         name=catalog
        time="2019-01-07T22:20:59Z" level=debug msg="WorkloadAttestor(k8s): configuring 
         plugin" subsystem_name=catalog
        time="2019-01-07T22:20:59Z" level=debug msg="WorkloadAttestor(unix): configuring 
         plugin" subsystem_name=catalog
        time="2019-01-07T22:20:59Z" level=debug msg="NodeAttestor(k8s_sat): configuring 
         plugin" subsystem_name=catalog
        time="2019-01-07T22:20:59Z" level=debug msg="KeyManager(memory): configuring 
         plugin" subsystem_name=catalog
        time="2019-01-07T22:20:59Z" level=debug msg="No pre-existing agent SVID found. 
         Will perform node attestation" subsystem_name=attestor 
        time="2019-01-07T22:29:31Z" level=info msg="Starting workload API" 
         subsystem_name=endpoints

# Changes For A Production Environment

This tutorial is not designed for a production Kubernetes environment. A production environment requires adjustments to certain steps; these changes are summarized in this section.

The server uses a **hostPath** bind mount for persisting its keys and SQLite database. In a production deployment, a more robust and secure persistence mechanism is required.

This tutorial uses a bootstrap cert -- **dummy_upstream_ca.crt** -- and key from the SPIRE source tree. In a production deployment, you would generate a new key/certificate pair and implement certificate rotation.

In the [Create Server Configmap](#create-server-configmap) step: set the the cluster name in the `k8s_sat NodeAttestor` entry to the name you provide in the **agent-configmap.yaml** configuration file. 
